Twenty years ago, people typically made friends with others who live or work close to themselves, such as neighbors or colleagues. We call friends made through this traditional fashion as G-friends, which stands for geographical location-based friends because they are influenced by the geographical distances between each other. With the rapid advances in social networks, services such as Facebook, Twitter and Google+ have provided us revolutionary ways of making friends. According to Facebook statistics, a user has an average of 130 friends, perhaps larger than any other time in history.One challenge with existing social networking services is how to recommend a good friend to a user. Most of them rely on pre-existing user relationships to pick friend candidates. For example, Facebook relies on a social link analysis among those who already share common friends and recommends symmetrical users as potential friends. Unfortunately, this approach may not be the most appropriate based on recent sociology findings According to these studies,
the rules to group people together include: 1) habits or life style; 2) attitudes; 3) tastes; 4) moral standards; 5) economic level; and 6) people they already know. Apparently, rule #3 and rule #6 are the mainstream factors considered by existing recommendation systems. Rule #1, although probably the most intuitive, is not widely used because users’ life styles are difficult, if not impossible, to capture through web actions. Rather, life styles are usually closely correlated with daily routines and activities. Therefore, if we could gather information on users’ daily routines and activities, we can exploit rule #1 and recommend friends to people based on their similar life styles. This recommendation mechanism can be deployed as a standalone app on smartphones or as an add-on to existing social network frameworks. In both cases, Friendbook can help mobile phone users find friends either among strangers or within a certain group as long as they share similar life styles.In our everyday lives, we may have hundreds of activities, which form meaningful sequences that shape our lives. In this paper, we use the word activity to specif- ically refer to the actions taken in the order of seconds, such as “sitting”, “walking”, or “typing”, while we use the phrase life style to refer to higher-level abstractions of daily lives, such as “office work” or “shopping”. For instance, the “shopping” life style mostly consists of the “walking” activity, but may also contain the “standing” or the “sitting” activities.To model daily lives properly, we draw an analogy between people’s daily lives and documents, as shown in Figure 1. Previous research on probabilistic topic models in text mining has treated documents as mixtures of